Thank you. Thank you again everyone. Thank you so much everyone. Welcome everyone. Okay.
Then we're going to talk to you about parameter or what we're going to talk about by teaching
of the Chaiti Vinya Rinpoche and the layout of the three novelists, the beginning novel
and the middle novel and the complicated novel. And in that way, now we are in the middle novel,
as you already know. And in the middle novel, there also is a name that we use the frame
as like actualizing the body jata and then actualizing the body jata is the sixth parameter
practices. So we are now on computer, we are talking on the sixth parameter teachings,
sixth parameter teachings. And now it is the sixth parameter teachings and now we went through the
first three and which is the generous parameter and patient, so morality parameter and patient
parameters. So we went through all those three parameter practices, three parameter practice we
were. And today we talk, continue to talk on the joyful effort parameters. Joyful effort parameter
is again, this is so important. Of course, all parameters are so important, so practical,
they're so appealing and also so kind of systematic that is building up one, up another because
they're getting what we're doing, we're going to glorify our observations, obstacles and fulfilling
our wishes of one's own self and others. So therefore, it is really old and so kind of just
according our capabilities and readiness, it is what the gracious teacher, Buddha Shakyamani
taught. And this way, now again to follow with this, again as we so many times we mention it,
always we mention it and that's what in the teaching always said, so this stands in our
beautiful motivations. Motivation again, joy and appreciations, joy and appreciation,
vastness, motivation of the body jata and purity, motivation of other teachings of brain
realization
of the Vediana teachings. Those are known as the motivations, but this motivation is not just a
kind of motivation or thinking that those intentions are just short, wide, then we're
going to do some practices. That this motivation is never, is really the practice, that is what
we're going to practice. That is more performed, more deepening of that motivation. That is what
we're going to practice. So therefore, we should not think the motivation is kind of just a kind
of a small kind of like at the beginning stages. No, it is the beginning, but same time is the
center of the column of the practices. When we fulfill this goal of the motivation,
then we reach enlightenment, we become the Buddha. So therefore, this is so important.
With those who do motivation and thought, now we're going to follow with the teachings. And today,
I'm going to talk really again about the joyful effort. Joyful effort or the breath of parliament.
And then also I'm going to talk really about the Saladhava, because now today begins Saladhava,
the month of the Saladhava, which goes for about a month, or generally. So I'll talk really about
that. Of course, many of you already know that, but just again, to in a way to glorify our memories
.
And because of the kindness, compassion, the wisdom that is shared by our gracious kindness
teachers. So therefore, all those reasons, I will go over those things. So first, I'll talk again
really about the joyful effort parliament. Joyful effort, and again, we translate more precisely
what the great master Shanti Deva said in his way in the guide to the bodhisattvas.
Joyful effort or effort in Burya, one is joy of the virtues. Joy of the virtues. It's not just joy
of anything. Joy of the dharma, or simply to tell, joy of the dharma. That is essence, essence or
identity, nature of the joyful effort. I'm translating really kind of joyful effort.
It is joyful effort, but joyful effort of the dharma, dharma, that is really the joyful effort.
So now we go to the joyful effort of dharma, dharma, practices. And that is, then as we,
I spoke yesterday, and you all know that without the joyful effort, there is no progress of the
parameters. It's absolutely dependent upon the joyful, of the joyful effort of the dharma.
It's all dependent and to progress of this. This joyful effort of the dharma is, or the virtues,
is the moving force of the old parameters. So therefore, as I said yesterday too,
in the quotation of the great Maha of Buddha sitting, Lord Jamsu Sutras, those individually
who don't have the joyful effort, they cannot fulfill the goal of the others or one's own song.
And then as well as they won't improve the, or practice, practice of dharma. And then therefore,
they will not reach enlightenment. They were not going to scour there in a Buddha nature.
So that means, when we don't have the joyful effort of the virtues, we don't have the
generosity, we don't have the morality, we don't have the patience, we don't have the concentration
.
And then even when we have versus them, it's completely become dull, dull, dim, you know,
most kind of light has nothing kind of brightness, clarity is believed, it's really gone. And then
joyful effort is lost. So therefore, it is so powerful, so important. And opposite of joyful
effort, as I said yesterday on the teaching, I mean that of course, we all know it's not something,
again, I'm talking something new things, but the greatest teacher, Buddha Shakti Amuni,
more clarified that, so that we can understand. That's what, that's what the greatest teacher,
Buddha Shakti Amuni said himself, he said, "I am the teacher, I'm showing only the way things are,
as simple, true as it is, nothing higher, nothing below, simple, true as it is."
So Buddha pointing us out, pointing us out of the exactly way things. So what is really the
realm of not having joyful effort of dharma? Because of laziness. Laziness, laziness is
the opposite of joyful effort. And laziness is part of the package of the samsara dualities.
Samsara, this habit awareness or samsara, this calm, it's just a kind of package. It comes almost,
it's like shadow, shadow. So now we have to reverse that. We have to check out that will
or that burden of the, that laziness. And then laziness are, many of times, of course, we think
laziness is just, of course, laziness, slow, slow, slow, slow for you. Or just laziness, laziness.
That's true. That's the laziness too. The greatest teacher, Buddha Shakti Amuni pointed,
three laziness, three kinds of laziness. As listed yesterday, and again, this is first is
the like slow, slow, slow for right. A slow laziness or a simple, maybe I just said,
the karyam, slow for laziness. And the second laziness is self-blaming laziness.
Self-blaming. And the third is laziness of the hanging, always hanging with the old habit patterns,
activity of the old habit patterns. Hang on, hang on that. So those are the three laziness, which
is
preventing our joy of the, joyful effort of the Dharma. It's block, blockings. And so therefore,
these three are. Now I will go one, one after another, go over there. First is slow laziness,
or slow, slow laziness, and/or casual laziness. That is very normal. And of course, we all know
that laziness kind of like, when people are not motivated anything, anything, and they just kind
of hang up, hang out kind of more, western times in a way. Or maybe like just hang out very
casually and not motivating and sleeping loud or sleeping late, stay long in the night time,
time, and not doing anything. Anything that follows. Goal. Goal, and it's just as casual.
That is known as, you know, Bhadana, is laziness. Not just also in the Dharma, but also in Samsara
too. And we really do that all the time. What? You're going to fulfill. What do you already have?
Because of doing that, it will demolish, decline. It will bring declines. And you won't progress
anything. Anything. It really will decline. So for that reason, what in the teaching said.
And also time is not going to wait. Wait. Season is going to change. Change. The storm is coming
in a way. What a great master Patamba Sanyam said. He said, "In the middle of the jungle,
the monkeys are very happy. But watch out. The end of the jungle is surrounded by the fires.
True. In this samsara, we are not really completely safe. So many difficulties are waiting.
We went through the challenges of the birth, according to Buddhism. We went already.
Now we go to challenge of the getting old, or sicknesses, death. And the plan, there are so many
more. Even in certain countries, we have confidence this is going to help to stay lonely and well.
And all that. Even that support, what we believe to be supported in our lives,
could turn completely against us. A season, time, everything is changing. Therefore,
there is no time. There are so many opportunities with the sloppy laziness. For that reason,
what a great master Chantideva said, "Don't be laziness. Take as like a timid person."
Snake enters in the timid life of the timid person. Snake enters. What that timid person is going
to do?
Going to wait. What the snake is doing? Know that immediately he will jump up and try to avoid it.
Similarly, the sloppy laziness is like invading our fulfillment, our growth, our progress.
For that reason, same way, same kind of metaphor, by an origin or two, and a letter to my friends.
What is this teaching said? I said, "As cat and fire on our head, our head cat and fire,
what do we do? We're not going to wait to see how the fire is going through.
Immediately we're going to act to stop the fire." Similarly, this sloppy this laziness is like
can't fire. It's very sneaky fire. It's demolishing our daily practices or the progress, and
therefore,
in the teaching said, said, "Two practices. Time is right with you. Everything is your
favor. Why we shall be not yours? This is the time. Don't make that you feel bad or I've missed
this opportunity. I've missed the times." When we started thinking that, maybe it's too late.
We have to develop and progress right now. For that reason, the force will join for effort.
What is called the armor-led joyful effort. That we should have. Armor-led joyful,
courage and commitment, confidence. All the Buddha's bodhisattva, they all reach enlightenment.
They walked very hard. This really did. And to further each goal of the paramatas,
they walked hard. They benefited too many beings, one after another. And why I should waste time,
and why I do that. And we all have these opportunities. It is time that I'm going to
fulfill the goal. Kind of bounce back our courage and commitment and confidence. Put that in action
.
Perform it as you receive the teachings, or as you already practiced. This is the time. And really
feel happy, as we continue doing that. Feel happy. I'm doing something good to perform my goal and
goal of others. This is the bodhisattva activities. Bodhisattva means we're taking for all the
beings
to benefit to everyone. Every act is sloppy. We're not going to fulfill the goal.
What we say, we're going to fulfill the goal of the others and going to follow,
put the steps of the Buddha in the bodhisattva. All that becomes just a talk.
There's no value behind. That's it. We're really losing the point. And therefore,
we courage, for those reasons, many times in the teaching, teaching those practicing
lineage teachings, glad dribble of bone in heart. Bone. B-O-N-E, I think. Bone in heart.
May I please bless me that I have bone in my heart. We're always trying to go a kind of easy way,
and trying to avoid that or something. We think, maybe we are smarter. But really,
reality, we're really banging our own fists to our own head. We're cheating ourselves.
Therefore, take the opportunity. We should all do that. I'm not just saying to you,
also talk to me. I'm reminded. We all need that. And we like to progress and develop.
Time is right with us. With you, with me, we all have the time now. Good time. Whatever. It is
perfect. What great teacher, in one of his teachings, the time is perfect now. Otherwise,
our intelligence will be going to dream. Dream as the edge goes. Our dream, the old
name, the senses have become also kind of blurry. Blurry. And life force becomes declines.
And also, they practice. Even if you want to practice, we can't handle. Even our hearts are there,
but our physical energy level, we won't be able to do many times.
Times. Therefore, now we should not make so many excuses, these and that thing. And we really let
you do whatever you committed or whatever we committed. And what we do like to do, practice
one hour, two hours, trying to maintain that, keep that, not reduce, maybe increase, increase that.
All different kind of reasons we can make these and that, these and that things. It's true. We have
all that. But what the great master will keep us hit. The activity of samsara is never going to
finish it. How is it going to finish it? When you stop, then it's finished. Otherwise, it goes on
and on. And some other teachings, what he says is, the activity of samsara is like ripples of the
ocean or ripples of legs. L-A-K-E, legs. There is no end of the ripples. It will continue.
So therefore, be smart, be wise, be intelligent, be thoughtful, thoughtful, purpose of ourself
and all the beings. Do something good. We are going to follow our goal. We are taking the beautiful
meaning of our spiritual lives. That's what the teaching said. It's really true. We stay with
happy. We lead this world with happy. Our journey will be bright and happy and strongly according
to the teaching of the great teachers, Bhadashakamuni and as well as all great masters. So that is
really about the first one. First one, which means sloppy laziness, I'm translating, or just a
simple
laziness, regal, kaju, laziness. Then the second laziness is self-blaming. Many times, we don't
think that is laziness. But it is form of laziness. Because why? It is preventing our practice,
our good deeds, our good motivations. It completely blocking our more intentions.
And it's kind of an easy, easy kind of exit to avoiding that situation for short times.
Reality again, the same example. We are beating our heart, this priest to our own head. It's
nothing
really is any better than that. Just really that self-blaming. We tell how I can do. That's too
much
for me. I don't have that capabilities. I'm not walked wise. I'm not strong enough. All this.
And I can't handle. And how I can handle? Making all those questions and making kind of
executes or to stay. But that is from what, from what? Let me do that. What is it, from what?
According to Buddhism, every living being has the capability to reach enlightenment. According to
Gregor teacher, Buddha Hehakem the teaching is you don't know, it's like demo practice.
Everyone has a right. Everyone has a right. Right. Same opportunities.
Opportunities. Those who become like as the Buddha and those who are still hanging
or struggling in the samsara, we have the same natures. Gregor teacher, Buddha Hehakem said,
even the insect will get enlightenment. Insect. We're not insect. We're not flies.
We're more than that. We have all this eighth knowledge of the previous human bodies
or 18 endowments. We're more than that. We're very important. We're very lucky.
We have every tools of skills and we are in upper, one of the upper three rooms,
rooms. Particularly, human realm is in the teaching. It's the best where you can progress,
develop. Even we take God's realm, all those so committed, true, but to develop,
to spiritual realization, it begins from the human realm. It's the perfect best right.
And we are in that time. We are ever used to terminology normally in America. We are land
of the dreams. Truth. We can fulfill our dreams. Everyone has a right to fulfill their dreams of
the enlightenment. No one is excluded. So we should not say, I cannot. What do you make in the
world?
Only what we do, we have to have the comment, call it. As armor, length, joyful effort.
Put and put then action. And what like action as it after the second joyful effort,
which is the never missed activity, continuation as a given effort. Of course,
you can look those more in the books and I'm not sure many of you already know those things,
but to clarify, I'm to clarify that, but that's what I'm translating. In the debate,
you're wrong going away. It's the continuation activity that never missed. Always in progress,
always lifting up the levels from three to one, sorry, or three to four, four to five, gradually
lifting up, not going backward, lifting up the our responsibility and our goal, goal, always.
And then F is not lifting up immediately, level up immediately, but definitely have to keep
on that steady mood, where you are or where we are, and that steady mood, and the mood.
With always a spray and both each other and pray that my capability, my joyful effort,
that continual growth, joyful effort to the downward, continual growth in the deepening,
so that I can perform goal of the enlightenment. As Greg Strieger, Bodakshaktaman did, and as
Manjushri is doing, and as all these others are doing, really, may I ever do it? We all have the
same opportunities, same nature, same capabilities, same capabilities. I just said, like, what is
my
liking? It's my joyful effort. Dharma is liking. That's what I'm struggling with in the samsara.
But now I have to put, put, and with that attitude, really that, and then slowly become steady and
move, and then to move forward, what the great master, Master Chanti Deva said, you always use
four powers that will accelerate joyful effort. Those four powers, also in the Tibetan city,
pongji, pongji, and I'm translating it four powers, and which is, the four powers are
power of the motivation, power of the stabilizations, and the power of the,
power of the joy, and power of the balance. Those four are the, as part of the tool of
continuation joyful effort that is not going to stop. That, for this motivation, again,
made always feel happy to the practices. Happy. Practice Dharma is the happiness. It is really
peace. It's joy. It's loving kindness. It was compassion. We opened our own trade of the heart
that which has crossed us over a long time, for the big less times. Now we're opening that. How
wonderful. It's something that I can share that with others. How beautiful. Really, feel happy in
joy. Joy, practice Dharma, practice six powers. So wonderful. So beautiful. How I can do this?
I can share. I can glorify. I can be strong. I can be continuous. I can be more calm and peaceful.
I can understand clearly everything as perfectly beautiful. How wonderful. Never got that situation
and never realized that. Even everything is with me, but I didn't realize that until now.
Thanks to them and both themselves, all lineage masters who showing me this, this very part and
great techniques, that at least all in my tools, now I can see, now I can feel, now I will do.
Have that attitude, really thought with joy. And then second is power of the stabilizer,
stable. That means confidence. Power of the confidence. And I'm going to dream. I'm going
to move. I'm going to fulfill the goal. I'm going to fulfill the goal to discover my own nature,
brother nature. And I'm going to benefit for the others. I'm going to fulfill the six power of
others.
Really relying on our own substeams, substeams, your qualities, your glorious goodness.
Not going to dream my qualities. I'm not going to reduce my dignities. I'm going to glorify.
I have brother nature. It's growing. It's brightening up. I'm going to do.
Really relying on our own, on the nature and with confidence and joy. That is known as power of the
stabilizers. You can truly keep happy and joy and strong. Second, the motivation is then again,
joy. Joy and joy for effort. Of course, already it's joy for effort of the dharma,
but bring joy. How wonderful, how beautiful. I'm really going to do this for the sentient beings,
for my self. It's so wonderful that I'm going to fulfill it. And I'm doing this. I'm riding the
horse of the bodhicitta. Horse of the bodhicitta. I'm going to move from the happiness to the
happiness. Not just me, but I'm going to lead all other beings along with me. I'm going to
share this happiness, this peace and this harmonious, this respect and appreciation to all living
beings.
How wonderful, how beautiful. Kind of acknowledge ourself when we fulfill it. Not just put those
fulfillment or what achievement, not put it on the corner, in the dark corner. Bring that on the
surface.
Glorify yourself with help in your, in a way, celebration of the inner qualities, inner
celebrations. That is known as happiness. Power of the happiness for the joy. And then power the
balances. When that means, also when we are doing for effort, now it's continuation as like never
stop it. But when you are a little bit tired or when you're a little bit kind of like two
situations
become kind of little tense, relax a short time. Calm and peaceful. Relax. Balance. Balance is the
one important. Our joy of effort is open, calm, peaceful, balance. The strength of the courage,
the whether what's called the honor like joy, joy of effort is there. That is we will continue.
So that is known, those are known as the support of the joy of effort of the continuation.
Those four powers. What great, which is told by great master, master, chanting devils.
Next one is, next one, laziness is, is the laziness of the, a tragic, a tragic old,
one's own old habit of patience. Old habit of patience. And that is again, a code of Buddhism.
It is laziness. Attach one with old, old habit of activities and spend time with that.
Spend time. So then what is that? Then it is our practice, our meditation. And what is that?
Such as your pro-patients maybe. Pro-patients. Or your hobbies. Or watching movie all the times.
Or watching on the, on the computer, going on the computer games, curtains all the time. Or
collecting all the gossips. All the gossips of the village, gossips of the city, gossips of the
country, or gossips of the world now can get. Kind of promoting that gossips. Gossips.
If we do that, what is happening? What is really we're gaining?
Nothing is gaining. Nothing is fulfilling. Creating more emotions.
More different emotions. Emotions, I'm talking negative emotions.
Creating more emotional attachment, more anger, more jealous, more arrogance,
more kind of skeptical. What is really benefiting? And then in the mind stream,
our mind becomes more hard and strong and more unhappy. And almost everything becomes
blowing. See? See? This is, those are all known as, our kind of spending time with so many things
just going out. And preventing the activity of even others. Others activity too. Stopping kind
of slowing down that. And those all known as, leading that is, is, what's called, leading that is,
all habit activities. Hanging that. This is a wasting time. For that reason, again, be smart,
be thoughtful. Be thoughtful. Be thoughtful and avoid those. Trying to avoid those and spending
more time for the good purposes. Something that really benefit us. Or to others. Or maybe,
again, another one, maybe this modern time, spending so much time gossiping on the poems,
or in the mobile poems, or looking all the time on the, on this, this telephones,
telephones, and just collecting all those kind of unnecessary and formations.
And that kind of is also really becoming, it's not good for health, I believe. Every month,
actually,
I heard that it's not good for health. It's completely kind of straight up the mind,
agitated, and blowing up or mixed up our wind energies. And then it's kind of
affect with the brains and the mental state and peace and everything. It has not really
benefit. According to Dharma, it is the laziness that prevent our progress and the developments.
Therefore, be strong. This is the time again. It's time and it's just the perfect situation,
perfect time with us, and be smart. Be strong. Have bone in our heart. Use the time for the right
purposes, good purposes. It didn't mean that we cannot watch, we cannot do or talk or anything
like that. But more attention. More kind of simple, more gentle ways. Those are really important.
Those
are in the teaching. You see, it's the form of laziness. If we do that, what is laziness? That's
laziness. Then it is, is, oh sorry, next, uh, and then it will prevent it to the third joyful
effort.
Part of joyful effort is as joyful effort never feels enough to the good things. We never should
not feel, oh it's enough. I did enough now. I don't need to do. I don't need to do. I did
enough practice. I did enough meditations. Meditation. So I spend the time in all of these
and then kind of, perfect kind of thing, and then we don't need to do more than that. But according
to Dharma teaching, until we reach enlightenment, until we benefit all the beings, our job is not
complete. There's nothing is enough. We have to accumulate all the merits. We have to
accumulate the merit to the generous practices. We have to accumulate merit from the morality
practices, patient, all the six varamana practices. We have to help with all the beings,
beings. And there's nothing really we can say is enough. It's that might, it's time. We always do,
even the most, smallest things we should do with this practice. This is the story, again, in the
teaching, in the ancient time, or in the 11th century, when the great master, Atisha, came
to Tibet. And the teaching said, said, in the teaching said, Atisha, of course, is one of the
great masters who came to Tibet from India. He's a great enlightened beings, great in them. But yet
,
he's always so simple, humble, and practicing so simply. Practicing, such as many times I heard
all the teachers, teachers you see, he practiced in a giant praise of this taking ruffles. I take
ruffles in the Buddha. I take ruffles in the Dharma. I take ruffles in the Sanghas. Those praise,
jambro in Tibet, called jambro prayers that he do always. Then he do many times, always actually,
always he do, making the chathas, chathas. By himself, he become the one of the great
masters, and he's so many students. But he himself making chathas, chathas. Some of the students
told
his master, Atisha, "Oh great master, master, we don't like to see you. Your head is dirty with
the clays, the clays and the making of the chathas. Let us do that chathas for you." They're told
to Atishas. Atishas say to them, "What are you talking? You're going to eat for me too?
Eat for me too? What are you talking about? Really?" He said, "That's the examples."
At some, we all need even the smallest of things. We're never going to say it's enough, or it's too
low, or too simple. That is arrogance. That is ego-clinging. That is the obstacles. It's
preventing to accumulate the merits. Therefore, we from the smallest, such as the circumambulation,
performing the making of the chathas, serving to the temples, the community houses, with love,
with kindness, with respect. Those are known as both meditating rituals or dharma activities,
and then practice meditating. Do good things, and that really helps. When you finish that,
even when you did that, we all feel happy, joy, or just something good. Do with a quarter of your
cup of lettuce, and also need more others, but we did coordinate with confidence, and always
wishing
we can do more things. Each time, whatever we're able to do, ever we did, we should dedicate that
very whole living beings. They refer to their realizations. That is my really talk about
the joyful effort of the dharma. Dharma talk, and I spoke really about the three latheiness,
and then as well as three joyful efforts. Those are divisions of three joyful efforts.
That is my brief talk, and now I'm going through really about the sagadawa. Sagadawa is really
so powerful, a cori, buddhist, and genuinely Tibetan buddhist. Why I'm saying that? Because
Theravada sagadawa and the Tibetan Buddhism sagadawa is slightly different. Why? Because Theravada
sagadawa happened last month. Last month. So it's one month difference. On the other hand, maybe 15
days different. Different. So for that reason, I'm talking this particular, what we call the
intubated world sagadawa, and which is, I think, in the Sanskrit, they wear saka. I think so.
Exactly. You can get those things by yourself. It's true. But if this sagadawa is because of why,
it's so important. And of course, generally, every time is so important. In the season or situation
,
time is right. If we use that, it has really big powers. For example, if the spring comes,
then summer is coming. Therefore, the farmers do the harvest station or planting all the seeds.
They cannot, even they like to do winter, they cannot do in those northern atmospheres. They
cannot do it. They always have wait in the springtime and then start sowing the seeds,
blowing the pills and planting the seeds. That means timing is perfect. Similarly, the sagadawa
is really perfect timing to accommodate the readiness. According to both master's teachings,
everyone, all the schools of Tibetan Buddhism, say the same thing, say the same thing. So it's
so powerful, so special. It is like in the teachings, the sagadawa, each virtues or the
pose dhamma practices will be multiplied as really millions and a million times or a trillion times
in the teaching set. This is not just only the sagadawa term at one time, each time. That means
each day, every practice, that virtues are that much increased. That may be that much increased.
Very. That means also our negative behaviors are put in mind. The two obscurations are going away.
Two obscurations for two. To clear up the two obscurations, how many times the greatest teacher,
Buddha Chaitanya Muni spent three countless years to claim it to obscurations.
So above obscurations, a pretty pattern is so strong and deep. Whenever you use the powerful
method and the skill who means ways, it really makes big change. In the teaching set, what?
Buddha Chaitanya Muni, when he was born as like Brahma, Brahma, he circumrelated,
"Arboleted to Sanghiya Kargil or Buddha Kargil." Kargil, with one treat, I mean so that means
kind of the one treat he put inward, he kind of he's like a certain practices and then
with one treat, he circumambulated one week, day and night.
That perpetuated karmas, I think of eating, eating karmas, karmas, something,
and accumulated that much. So these three countless eons have become shorter of the eating karmas.
Like that, I think something like that. So it's so powerful and we use the perfect time.
Perfect time. It is really important. So therefore, Saladeva is really the very special, perfect
time
according to all the great masters that were Buddhists. So then what happened in Saladeva?
Because Saladeva, there is three major activities of the activities of the Buddha Chaitanya Muni
happening in this month. The first one is birth. The second is his enlightenment. And third is, is
Mahaparin Hiranas. Those are three measures. Plus, according to the teaching,
that according to the great master material teaching, among the 12 activities,
those 12 activities, you look in your book and all other means of the method, you look
and I won't list all those things. I think it's going to take time. But one of those
is known as walking to the body trees. That is one of the major activities.
And one activity is also known as the subduing all the Mahas by his completion, allowing karmas,
all the obstacles. So those trees are also happened. Happened. Then in some teachings also
mentioned
that he told all the nations on that also in this month. That means Buddha Chaitanya Muni
stayed in the kingdom about 29 years. After that, he left the kingdoms. And when in the jungle,
he told all the nations. So that means all the nations, he left in the also maybe kingdom in
a saladawah, saladawah in this month, and he told all the nations. That all nation in the teaching
said or some teaching said, he told that all the nation on the 8th day of this month.
So now all that, all those major activities happened. And now I will say, when Buddha
Chaitanya Muni was born, according to the Buddha's name, he was born on the 7th day of the lunar
calendars. And the Buddha Chaitanya Muni took all the nations and told the 8th day of the lunar
calendar of this, at the day of this month. So 7th day at the day. And when Buddha Chaitanya Muni
walked to the Bodhi tree, the full moon or the portent of the lunar calendars, he walked,
walked to the Bodhi tree, portent. And then he sat down on the Bodhi tree on the full moon nights.
At that full moon nights, he defeated all the vāras by lowing kindness in a compass. That happened
.
And that morning, before the dawn, he treated them. In this world or in India, Buddha become the
Buddha
in life. That all happened in the full moon nights. Then, Buddha Chaitanya Muni, when he
entered Mahāprāri nirvana, in that same full moon night, not the same one, but 82 years after
that.
No, no, no, sorry, it's 29, 35, Buddha reached enlightenment. And then, Buddha stayed about 45
years and turned the wheel of dhāna. After that, he entered the Mahāprāri nirvana. And so that
means, Buddha entered Mahāprāri nirvana, 45 after that, after that, he'll get enlightenment,
but same day of the lunar calendar and full moon. That Buddha entered Mahāprāri nirvana. So
therefore,
this month is considered a month of the merry choice, month or month of the very virtues.
Therefore, many times in the Tibetan, the Tibetan is custom. They always acknowledge it. So what do
we have to do? The Buddha's teaching. So try to follow what Buddha says and what Buddha teach.
What Buddha did? Buddha did his non-violence. Kindness, compassion, love to all the sentient beings
,
respect to all the sentient beings. That's really what Buddha is, or was, or is.
And then what he taught, that that teaching taught, love and kindness, compassion, non-volence,
respect and appreciation to every living beings, and bring more harmony and peaceful.
That's what really the Buddha taught. Generally, more love and compassion in heart and mind.
And in order to increase that, to do medituary activities, activities of the six paramatta
practices. So those are what the Buddha taught. And therefore, follow the Buddha,
of the Tibetan Buddhism, then they try to do a lot of virtuous activities as much as they can
in this month. And so, what really they're doing? Many times they take the uni vowels,
uni practices. Uni vowels are the eight preceptors. It's the late practitioners. Most of the time,
it is particularly designed, the shortest one preceptors, 24 hours. And that is trying to
take that vowels. Or maybe they activated the Apasana vowels. Activated, recently,
Pasana vowels. So those are the rituals. And 80%, of course, many of you already know,
but even you all know, I will just list those as precise. And those are, there is, if it's 80%,
if we divide it according to the teaching, this can be divided into three groups.
Root of the vowels, and the reminding of the consciousnesses, and then group of the ascetic
practices. Ascetic practices. So group of the root vowels, group of the, group of,
there's not many things, but group, yeah, maybe group, group of the, to maintain the
consciousness or thought of all, and then group of the ascetic practices. Those are known as the
eight preceptors. Now I'll go each of those, their names. First, the root of the vowels is
not healing, not stealing, not, I'm talking about the uni practices, not sexual activities.
And don't tell me, and not lying. I think I really did that, that again, not so,
what's called, not killing, not sexual activities, and then not sexual activities, and not lying.
Those three, poor, are the root of the vowels. And it's divided by the root principle, foundation
of the vowels. Vowels. And then what the groups of the, of the consciousness, or thoughtful,
that is alcohols and drugs, that they include, maybe also we can call it smoking, smoking.
Those are vital, because if you do that, it will lose our consciousness. It will undermine
our thought force, or symbol to the mindfulness. It will disturb the mindfulness, alertness,
and consciousness. Therefore, we prevent, we take the vow, not going to do that,
period of what we take the vowels, such as 24 hours. So that makes five, five. Now their group
of the ascetic practices, that is not eating the food afternoon, not eating the afternoon,
and not staying on the high throne, or high bed, or expressive beds. Beds. And that is one group.
And the second group of that ascetic practice, not singing, not dancing, and not performing.
And that is second group. Third, second group of the ascetic practice. Third group of the ascetic
practice is not wearing the only ornaments. Ornaments. Not necklace, short necklace,
long, medium necklace, and long necklaces. And making up the colors, or colors, or makeup,
maybe in other words, makeup. Makeup, those are that group of the not only thing, or not making
up groups. So all those three are known as ascetic practices. And all together, there is
that personas. And then above that, in the tradition of Tibetan, and particularly in the
teaching said, is the articha introduced, and not eating the meat. When you eat one meal in a day,
or the before noon, you eat, but not eating any animal products. But that means completely
vegetarians. So generally, in the Salada, more than 80 babies, and really those practitioners,
or the monasteries they do, vegetarians always try to do vegetarians. So I thought that was really
good. These days, a vegetarian is so important, and so healthy, everyone is talking. So I think,
I thought maybe, I'm going to try to myself too. So for at least two weeks, try to be vegetarian.
And I like to also encourage you all, if you can do vegetarian, then it's wonderful. You don't have
to be vegan, unless you want, then of course it's good. Otherwise, the vegetarian is really great,
great. And then you can take these vows with shrines, yourself. If you don't have any kind of
teacher who do it, and if those who really like to do that, send us email, email, we will send you
the instructions of that, that taking vows of the, this adult. It's the same as the uni practices.
Many of you maybe have those other units. It's just like that. But that's why we do that,
let's shine nicely. Nicely. Making shrines nice and a nice atmosphere is really considered also
six paramatta practices. We're talking about now six paramatta. So I like to highlight on
six paramatta practices. With that, try making shrines perfectly beautiful,
eating demand, nice spending time, and also maybe some effort spending, making nice shrines. That
aspect is, or that space is such as plural, incense, and light offerings, and nice things,
kind of clean up that is all known as generous aspect of the shrines, generous practice.
You spend time, something, your effort, and your kind of also your some, some to make candles in
incense and flow and all that, you spend time. So that aspect is like generously practice. Generous
paramatta. Then nice shine, making nice, which are clean, clean, nicely, nice, fresh water,
or whatever offerings. Everything kind of looks so nice and beautiful, really like that. It's not
just a kind of like the table of yard sales, or the garage sales, but nice and beautiful,
really just really do that. That aspect is known as morality of the sharing practices.
And of course, I'm sure that takes some time, times and effort, and they kind of like that. But
that,
when you do that, we do it. That is patient. That is aspect of the patient. We do that,
even though he's kind of spending time, there will be all these things left.
And then your effort, of course there, because that's what you're doing. That is your effort.
And then when you put the offering, those things, if you know the meaning of those different
offerings, such as in a Tibetan square, those seven boards, if you think concentrated on those,
really thinking on concentrated on that, that is a concentration of paramakas.
And that is clearly, beautiful, perfectly, exactly the way it should be. Things are perfectly
beautiful, done perfectly, and that is the personal aspect of parama. So this making shrine
right there, simply we are accumulating. Parama, the practice is true. It's really
beautiful. If we can do that, let me, this activated that in saladawas. That is wonderful,
it's beautiful. And then you can take those vowels, like in shrine, shrine, for the essence,
and do three pose station, and after three pose station, join those praise, whenever you already
know that. And then just throw those praise, and then that means you're breaking vowels right in
front of the shrine, and take shrine is the presence of the Buddha. That shrine is like Buddha.
And Buddha's mode is the enlightenment beings are right in there, in front of that you're taking
that vowels. And then you take that, and in a vowel, in tradition teaching, so you won't eat.
If you take eight percent vowels for 24 hours, you won't really, then apparently you won't eat food
.
No, you're not going to speak of communication eating, just spend time, practices, meditating,
or do the whole accumulation practice, whatever you're doing, meditating, and reciting all the
time into bed, what they do, spending time, finding the matter of the gerizins. Visualizing,
gerizin matters, om mani, pemme, om mani, that's a relative. And then I turn next morning. So that
is really the 24 hour vowels, and then do the dedication prayers. So that's the shortest vowels
of the 24 hours, which according to teaching is so powerful, it's so great for education,
and the power of practices. So that's really kind of what I'm told. And now we've completed almost
time, and my talking time, and then as well as meditating time, all is completed. Now we're right,
we'll go to the healing practice, or gi mela, I think. So today, we're going to spend time
with the salga dama, and for the aspire that we take these opportunities. So I thought also,
I like to do a little bit with this practice myself as much as I can, and particularly those
trying to be kind of like vegetarian, and that's what really I'm thinking kind of like.
And then so, but then also you do, and then union practice, or 24 hours, you can do that,
but wonderful. And thank you everyone very much for all your patience, and thank you.
And now we really go to the right to the, what's called the 14 mela practice.